# **This module discuss Data Schemas, Data Modeling and Data Types:**

## _Introduction :_

- MongoDB doesn't enforce any schema, your documents don't have to use the same schema inside one collection.

- But in real life you always need something in between from the mongoDB & SQL world.

## _Data Types - An Overview:_

- MongoDB ships with many data types such as:

  - **Text**: for example "hema" , with text data type the only limitation you have is the 16mb total size of the document.

  - **Boolean**: true / false.

  - **Intger(int32)**: 32-bit long integer, if you try to store longer number this will cause overflow and you will end up with different number.

  - **NumberLong(int64)**: 64-bit long integer, to store long numbers.

  - **NumberDecimal**: number with decimal place, this data type provides high percision decimal value because the defalut in the shell (which is double) is rounded, and this is not usefull in scientific calculations.

  - **ObjectId("some id")**: special object auto generated by mongoDB to provide a unique id for your documents in the collection.

  - **ISODate**: to make date calculations.

  - **TimeStamp**: most of the time created automatically.

  - **Embedded Document**: nested document upto 100 level.

  - **Embedded Array**

## _Joining with $lookup:_

- you can join collections with reference type relations using the aggregate method and the $lookup.

```javascript
// customers document
{
  userName:"max",
  fav_books: [1,2,3]
}

// books document
{
  _id:1,
  name: 'book1'
}

db.customers.aggregate([
  {
    $lookup: {
      from: 'books',
      localfield: 'fav_books',
      forigen_field: '_id',
      as: 'favBookData',
    },
  },
]);
```

- This returns all the customers with their fav_books are embedded in the favBookData field.
